arXiv:1710.04726v2 [cs.MA] 1 Nov 2017

RAWSim-O: A Simulation Framework for
Robotic Mobile Fulfillment Systems
Marius Merschformann∗1 , Lin Xie†2 , and Hanyi Li3
1

2

Paderborn University, Paderborn, Germany
Leuphana University of Lüneburg, Lüneburg, Germany
3
Beijing HANNING ZN Tech Co.,Ltd, Beijing, China
November 3, 2017

Abstract
This paper deals with a new type of warehousing system, Robotic
Mobile Fulfillment Systems (RMFS). In such systems, robots are sent to
carry storage units, so-called “pods,” from the inventory and bring them
to human operators working at stations. At the stations, the items are
picked according to customers’ orders. There exist new decision problems
in such systems, for example, the reallocation of pods after their visits at
work stations or the selection of pods to fulfill orders. In order to analyze
decision strategies for these decision problems and relations between them,
we develop a simulation framework called “RAWSim-O” in this paper.
Moreover, we show a real-world application of our simulation framework
by integrating simple robot prototypes based on vacuum cleaning robots.

1

Introduction

Due to the rise of e-commerce, the traditional manual picker-to-parts warehousing systems no longer work efficiently, and new types of warehousing systems
are required, such as automated parts-to-picker systems. For details about the
classification of different warehousing systems we refer to [4]. This paper studies one of the parts-to-picker systems, a so-called Robotic Mobile Fulfillment
Systems (RMFS), such as the Kiva System ([5], nowadays Amazon Robotics),
the GreyOrange Butler or the Swisslog CarryPick. The approach of an RMFS
spares some of the time-intense tasks that human workers are confronted with
in traditional warehouses, such as the search and retrieval of order items. [11]
indicates that the Kiva System increases the productivity two to three times,
∗ marius.merschformann@uni-paderborn.de
† lin.xie@leuphana.de

1

in contrast to a traditional manual picker-to-parts system. Compared to other
kinds of warehousing systems, the biggest advantages of an RMFS are its flexibility as a result of having virtually no fixed installations, the scalability due to
accessing the inventory in a parallel manner, and the reliability due to the use
of only homogeneous components, i.e., redundant components may compensate
for faulty ones (see [6] and [12]).
The first framework, “Alphabet Soup,” was published by [6], and is a first
simulation of the RMFS concept. In this work, we extend the work of [6] to
develop our simulation framework, called “RAWSim-O” (Robotic Automatic
Warehouse Simulation (for) Optimization). Similarly to “Alphabet Soup,” we
use an agent-based and event-driven simulation focusing on a detailed view of
the system, but extend our simulation framework with the cases of multiple
floors, which are connected by elevators. The reason for this extension is to
avoid the lack of utilization of vertical space in an RMFS compared to other
parts-to-picker systems, such as shuttle-based solutions (see [10]). Moreover,
we integrate a more realistic robot movement emulation by considering the
robot’s turning time and adjusted acceleration or deceleration formulas. This
enables a real world application of our simulation framework by using simple
robot prototypes based on vacuum cleaning robots (iRobot Create 2). The
implementation of the framework was done in C# and is compatible with the
Mono project to allow execution on high throughput clusters. All source codes
are available at https://github.com/merschformann/RAWSim-O.
There exist many decision problems in an RMFS, and they influence each
other. With the publication of RAWSim-O we provide a tool for analyzing effects of decision mechanisms for these problems and synergies of decision strategies. The framework enables a holistic look at RMFS which helps uncovering
side-effects of strategies, e.g. deciding tasks for robot that cause congestion
issues for path planning methods. Hence, RAWSim-O enables a more reliable
assessment of the system’s overall efficiency, e.g., in terms of customer order
throughput. Thus, we hope to further support and push the research on RMFS
with our work. We describe the RMFS in more detail and point out the decision
problems in focus in Section 2. Next, our simulation framework is described in
Section 3. After that, we show a demonstration application of our simulation
in Section 4. Finnaly, we conclude our work in Section 5.

2

The Robotic Mobile Fulfillment System

Instead of using a system of shelves and conveyors as in traditional parts-topicker warehouses, the central components of an RMFS are:
• movable shelves, called pods, on which inventory is stored
• storage locations denoting the inventory area where the pods are stored
• workstations, where the pick order items are picked from pods (pick stations) or replenishment orders are stored to pods (replenishment stations)

2

• mobile robots, which can move underneath pods and carry them to workstations.
The pods are transported by robots between the inventory area and workstations. Figure 1 shows the storage and retrieval process: after the arrival of
a replenishment order (consisting of a number of physical units of one stock
keeping unit (SKU)), robots carry selected pods to a replenishment station to
store units in pods. Similarly, after receiving a pick order (including a set of
order lines, each for one SKU, with corresponding units necessary to fulfill the
line), robots carry selected pods to a pick station, where the units for the order
lines are picked. Note that, in order to fulfill pick orders, several pods may be
needed, since orders may have multiple lines. Although pods typically contain
multiple SKUs with many SKUs in stored in the system it is very unlikely that
a pick order can be completed with only one pod. Then, after a pod has been
processed at one or more stations, it is brought back to a storage location in
the inventory area.

Replenishment
Retrieval

Storage
Storage

Retrieval

Order picking

Figure 1: The central process of an RMFS (see [7])

2.1

Decision Problems

In an RMFS environment, various optimization and allocation problems have
to be solved in real time. The system aims at keeping human workers at the
stations busy while minimizing the resources (e.g. robots) to fulfill the incoming
pick orders. These problems were first described by [12]:
• For the bots, the planning of their tasks, paths, and motions
• For the stations, the management of the workflow for each station
3

• For the resources of the system, their planning, provisioning, and allocation to other components of the system, usually called the Resource
Allocation Problem
As [12] note, the Resource Allocation Problem cannot be treated as a global
optimization problem, but rather as a set of subproblems that should be solved
using specialized methods to enable the decisions in an online e-commerce environment. We reiterate these decision problems briefly in the context of the
simulation framework developed in this work:
• Order Assignment
– Replenishment Order Assignment (ROA): assignment of replenishment orders to replenishment stations
– Pick Order Assignment (POA): assignment of pick orders to pick
stations
• Task Creation
– Pod Selection
∗ Replenishment Pod Selection (RPS): selection of the pod
to store one replenishment order in
∗ Pick Pod Selection (PPS): selection of the pods to use for
picking the pick orders assigned at a pick station
– Pod Storage Assignment (PSA): assignment of an available storage location to a pod that needs to be brought back to the inventory
area
• Task Allocation (TA): assignment of tasks from Task Creation and
additional support tasks like idling to robots
• Path Planning (PP): planning of the paths for the robots to execute
• Station Activation (SA): controlling active times of the stations (e.g.
switching some off based on work shifts or for emulation of “jumper”
pickers that can be assigned to allow for temporarily increased throughput)
• Method Management (MM): exchange of controlling mechanisms in
a running system (e.g. replacing the PSA controller with a different one
during runtime in order to adapt to changing conditions)
The decisions for the aforementioned operational problems influence each other.
Here we sketch two relationships between decision problems that may exploit
synergy effects or sabotage each others success:
• POA and PPS: one objective is to maximize the average number of picks
per handled pod (called pile-on); in other words, the higher the pile-on is,
the fewer pods are needed at pick stations. Therefore, the selection of a
pod for an order in PPS is dependent on the selection of the pick station
4

of other orders. If similar orders are assigned to the same pick station, a
pod can be selected to maximize the number of picks.
• PSA, TA and PP: One objective is to minimize the travel times of robots to
complete all orders, thus, reducing the number of robots needed to achieve
a certain throughput. For this, the selected storage locations for pods
impact the performance of the assignment of tasks and the pathfinding,
because the trip destinations change.
Some of the operational decision problems described above have been addressed in the context of RMFS in previous publications. First, the sequencing
of pick orders and pick pods for an integration of PPS and POA is studied in
[1]. The authors propose methods for obtaining sequences minimizing the number of pod visits at one station. Second, the planning of paths in an RMFS is
subject to the studies in [2], [3], and [9]. The state-of-the-art multi-agent path
planning algorithms were implemented in [9] to suit PP in an RMFS. Besides
the operational problems, we would like to note that more literature exists on
more tactical to strategic decision problems, like layout planning, for example,
in [8].

3

RAWSim-O

RAWSim-O is an agent-based discrete-event simulation framework. It is designed to study the context of an RMFS while considering kinematic behavior
of the mobile robots and evaluating multiple decision problems jointly. Hence,
the main focus of the framework is the assessment of new control strategies for
RMFS and their mutual effects. In the following, we describe the RAWSim-O
simulation framework in more detail. At first, we describe the general structure
of the framework, and then we give detailed information about how the robotic
movement is emulated.

3.1

Simulation Process

Figure 2a shows an overview of our simulation process, which is managed by
the core simulator instance. The tasks of the simulator contain:
• Updating agents, which can resemble either real entities, such as robots
and stations, or virtual entities like managers, e.g. for emulating order
processes.
• Passing decisions to controllers, which can either decide immediately or
buffer multiple requests and release the decision later.
• Exposing information to a visualizer, which allows optional visual feedback
in 2D or 3D. Figure 2b illustrates a screenshot of our simulation in 3D.
As mentioned before, RMFS usually lack utilization of vertical space when
compared to other parts-to-picker systems, for example shuttle-based solutions
5

(see [10]). Although the flexibility of the system due to the mobile components
is an advantage over the many fixed components of a shuttle-based solution,
in areas where land costs are high the lack of vertical space utilization can
be a deal-breaker for the RMFS concept. To help mitigate this disadvantage
RAWSim-O allows the study of multi-floor systems for applications where the
integration of mezzanine floors is possible (see Fig. 2b for example). The floors
are connected by elevators that can be used by one robot at a time. One elevator connects at least two waypoints of the underlying waypoint-system, which
is used for guiding the robots. For each pair of connected waypoints a constant
time is specified to capture the travel time of the lift transporting a robot.
Conceptually, the waypoint system itself is a directed graph which robots travel
along while adhering to their kinematic behavior. I.e., turning is only allowed
on-the-spot at waypoints (essentially nodes of the graph) and is executed by
a specified angular speed. Furthermore, straight travel along the edges of the
graph involves acceleration and deceleration, which is discussed in more detail
in Sec. 3.2. To avoid blocked destination waypoints for path planning (many
robots share the same destination when approaching stations or elevators) waypoints may form a queuing zone. After a robot reaches such a zone guided by a
path planning engine a queue manager takes over handling of the robots paths
within the zone. For this, the manager may make use of shortcuts definable
within the queue, but mainly lets the robots move up until they reach the end
waypoint (e.g., a pick station). On leaving the queuing zone again the defined
path planning engine takes over again.
Framework
Start

End
Agent
Update

Initialize

Simulator
nt
ine
imm
e
ion
cid
cis
De
De

for
ma
tio

n

Controller
Optimize

Output results
Fet
ch
in

Visualizer
Render

(a) Overview of the simulation process.

(b) Visualization screenshot

Figure 2: RAWSim-O simulation framework
The framework allows easy exchange of controllers by implementing a base
structure for all mentioned decision problems. For this, all controllers are also
agents of the simulation that may expose a next event to jump to, and also get
updated at each event. This enables the mechanisms to react to every change
occurring in the simulated world as well as to steer it. As a shortcut, controllers
may also subscribe to events that fire, if certain situations occur.
Additionally, the controllers are called whenever a new decision needs to be
6

made, e.g. the POA controller is called when a new pick order is submitted
to the system, and the TA controller is called when a robot finished its task.
In Tab. 1 we include a short outline of the calls to the event-driven decision
controllers. The SA and MM controllers are not event-driven, because they
are considered like management mechanisms. However, all controllers may subscribe to simulation-wide events.
Table 1: Overview of the base events causing calls to the controller per decision
problem and the corresponding assignment responsibility
Problem
ROA

Decision
repl. order → repl. station

POA

pick order → pick station

RPS

repl. order → pod

PPS
PSA

pod → pick order(s)
pod → storage location

TA
PP

task → robot
robot → robot

Main triggers
New repl. order,
repl. order stored in pod
New pick order,
pick order completed,
repl. order stored in pod
New repl. order,
SKU unit picked
New task is assigned to robot
Pod needs to be brought back to inventory
Robot needs a new task
Robot has a new destination

In addition to acting ad-hoc according to the triggers mentioned in Tab. 1
strategies may plan ahead, e.g., by sequencing tasks for robots instead of greedily
selecting them as soon as a robot is done with its previous one. For this example
it can be done by preparing tasks ahead and assigning them to the chosen robot
as soon as it becomes ready. Furthermore, the framework also allows some
controllers to run optimization algorithms in parallel. This means that the
controllers are allowed to buffer certain decisions (like the assignment of pick
orders), run an optimization procedure in parallel, and submit the decision
later on. In this case the simulation is paced until the optimization algorithm
returns a solution in order to synchronize the wall time of the algorithm with
the simulation time. I.e., the simulation will only continue for the wall time
that already passed for the optimization algorithm converted to simulation time
(while it is still running), but not beyond it.
3.1.1

Core Decision Hierarchy

In the following, we describe the hierarchy of all core decision problems after new
replenishment or pick orders are submitted to the system (see Figure 3). For
this, the SA and MM decision problems are neglected, since they have a more
supportive role and can even be replaced with default mechanisms that keep
the status quo. If a new replenishment order is received, first the controllers of
ROA and RPS are responsible for choosing a replenishment station and a pod.

7

This technically results in an insertion request, i.e. a request for a robot to
bring the selected pod to the given workstation. A number of these requests are
then combined in an insertion task and assigned to a robot by a TA controller.
Similarly, after the POA controller selects a pick order from the backlog and
assigns it to a pick station, an extraction request is generated, i.e. a request
to bring a suitable pod to the chosen station. Up to this point, the physical
units of SKUs for fulfilling the pick order are not yet chosen. Instead, the
decision is postponed and taken just before PPS combines different requests
into extraction tasks and TA assigns these tasks to robots. This allows the
implemented controllers to exploit more information when choosing a pod for
picking. Hence, in this work we consider PPS as a decision closely interlinked
with TA. Furthermore, the system generates store requests each time a pod is
required to be transported to a storage location, and the PSA controller decides
the storage location for that pod. The idle robots are located at dwelling points,
which are located in the middle of the storage area to avoid blocking prominent
storage locations next to the stations. Another possible type of task is charging,
if the battery of a robot runs low; however, for this work we assume the battery
capacity to be infinite. All of the tasks result in trips, which are planned by a
PP algorithm. The only exception is when a pod can be used for another task
at the same station, thus, not requiring the robot to move.
Requests:

POA

Trips:

Insert

RPS

Store

Pick order
received

ROA

Extract

Repl. order
received

PPS

TA

PP

PSA

Figure 3: Order of decisions to be done triggered by receiving a pick or replenishment order

3.1.2

Input Information

The simulation framework conceptually consists of three different inputs. First,
a layout configuration specifies the characteristics and dimensions of the system
layout itself. Second, a scenario configuration describes how orders are generated and further settings of the system’s surroundings. Finally, a controller
configuration is given to specify the decision mechanisms for all previously described decision problems. We distinguish them as three different input files to

8

enable easier assessment of control methods for different systems under diverse
scenarios.
Layout Specification The layout specification can be either an explicit file
specifying the exact positions and individual characteristics for all stations, the
waypoint system, and the robots; or a file providing specifications leading to a
default layout based on the concepts of [8]. This default layout can be seen in
Fig. 4, with pick stations as red circles, replenishment stations as yellow circles,
robots in green, and the pod storage locations in the middle as blue squares.
It is based on the idea of circular flows around storage location blocks that
also align with the entrances and exits of the stations and their queuing areas
(dotted lines). Between the queuing area and the storage locations, a hallway
area (dashed lines) allows the robots to cross between the stations. In order to
generate such a layout, the numbers of pick and replenishment stations on the
north, south, east, and west sides need to be set. Furthermore, the numbers of
vertical and horizontal aisles and the block size need to be specified.

Figure 4: The default layout, with two replenishment and two pick stations

Scenario Specification The next input file specifies information about the
scenario to simulate. This includes the duration of the simulation and settings
about the inventory and order emulation. In contrast with the concept of colored word order emulation of “Alphabet Soup” in [6], we use a concept for
SKU and pick order generation based on typical random distributions. For the
generation of SKU popularity information, we implemented constant, uniform,
normal, and gamma distributions to emulate simple scenarios up to more ABClike popularity curves. The SKU for each pick order line is then selected using
the chosen distribution, but limiting the choice to only in-stock products. This
is done to avoid stock-out situations, which are not useful when simulating the
control of an RMFS for such situation, i.e. we assume that no unfulfillable pick

9

orders are submitted to the system. The number of order lines and the number of units per line are also chosen from a distribution previously specified by
the user. For choosing the SKU for each replenishment order, we use the same
popularity distribution connected to information about the order size in which
a certain product is replenished. For this, we also allow setting a parameterized
amount of replenishment orders to be return orders, i.e. single line and single
unit replenishment orders. The space consumption of one unit of a SKU on a
pod is a one-dimensional factor which is also set according to a user-specified
distribution. This is necessary to enable the simulation of both pick and replenishment operations at the same time, while emulating the inventory situation
in our system.
Moreover, we implement three procedures for generating new replenishment
and pick orders. First, a constant order backlog scenario can be selected. This
means that a completed order is immediately replaced by a new one. This is done
to keep the system under constant pressure. To avoid completely overfilling or
draining the inventory over time, we allow the specification of replenishment and
pick order generation pauses according to given inventory level thresholds. E.g.,
if the inventory reaches a 95% filling, replenishment order generation is paused
until it drops below 50% again. Second, we generate orders according to arrivals
of a configurable Poisson process. This Poisson process can be inhomogeneous to
capture order peak situations during a day or match certain patterns observed at
distribution centers. Finally, we allow the input of files to specify which orders
are generated during the simulation horizon. Additionally, we allow a combined
setting of one of the order generation scenarios above with the submission of
order batches at given periodic time points. This is done to allow emulation
of batch operations or hybrid scenarios. With all of these options, we aim to
resemble most artificial and realistic scenarios.
Controller Configuration The last input file specifies the controller to use
for each decision problem as well as the parameters. This enables a flexible
configuration due to the modular controller concept. Controllers integrating
multiple decision problems can be configured using dummy controllers for the
other components. With the help of reflection most parameter structures only
need to be defined once. Without additional implementation effort new parameters are serializable and configurable in the graphical user interface.
3.1.3

Output

In order to investigate the system’s behavior in more detail, different output
measures are tracked and logged over time. For this, we distinguish three main
measure types. First, a footprint is written for each simulation execution to allow for an easy comparison of multiple executions. This footprint contains most
basic performance measures for the simulation run like the order throughput
rate or the distance traveled by the robots. Second, time-based information is
logged to generate plots after execution of the simulation. These are useful for
post-experiment analysis of the simulation processes, especially if no visualiza10

32000

660

31000

640

30000

620

29000

600

28000

580

27000

560

26000

540

Distance (meter)

Count (per hour)

680

25000
Distance traveled (y2)
Orders completed (y1)

520

24000
0

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

Simulation time (in hours)

(a) Sample progression plot of picked orders (red)
and distance traveled (blue) per hour

(b) Example of a heatmap showing robot movement behavior over
time (red ≡ high, purple ≡ low)

Figure 5: Examples of the system’s output
tion was attached. As an example, Figure 5a shows the pick order throughput
and overall distance traveled per hour for a simulation in which the PSA strategy is switched after half of the simulation horizon. For this experiment, a
random PSA strategy was replaced with a strategy selecting the nearest available storage location for the pod. This is reflected by the decrease in distance to
cover by the robots, which immediately leads to an increased throughput in pick
orders, because more pods are available at the pick stations. Finally, locationbased information is logged to conduct heatmap analyses. This is useful, for
example, to get insights about congestion effects when looking at robot movement behavior over time (see Fig. 5b). In this example, we can see the queuing
happening at the pick stations at the top and the replenishment stations at the
bottom. Furthermore, we can identify highly frequented areas which are prone
to congestion. Note that the logarithm was applied to the heat values in order
to increase the contrast in color in the resulting heatmap.

3.2

Robot Movement Emulation

The calculations of traveling times and distances for straight movement are
based on uniform acceleration and deceleration. For this, the velocity of a robot
has to be considered to determine its arrival time at a destination node. The
symbols used in the following description are defined in Tab. 2. The fundamental
formulas for all remaining definitions are given by the speed (see Eq. 1), the

11

Table 2: Symbol definitions
Symbol
vt
st
→
−
a
←
−
a
v

Description
The speed at time t
The position at time t
Acceleration in sm2
Deceleration in sm2 (negative)
Top-speed in m
s

difference in position while accelerating (see Eq. 2), and the difference in position
during top-speed (see Eq. 3).
→
vt = −
a t + v0
→
−
a 2
t + v0 t + s0
st =
2
st = vt + s0

(1)
(2)
(3)

For the implementation of the simulation framework, it is required to not only
calculate the time for covering a distance when initially standing still, but also
to calculate distances and times based on an initial speed v0 > 0, because
simulation events may occurat any time during robot travel. For this, the time
(tv0 →v ) and distance stv0 →v to reach the top-speed are needed (see Eq. 4 & 5).
This can analogously be defined for full deceleration (see Eq. 6 & 7).
v − v0
→
v=−
a tv0 →v + v0 ⇔ tv0 →v = −
→
a
→
−
a
2
(tv0 →v ) + v0 tv0 →v
stv0 →v =
2
0 − v0
−
0=←
a tv0 →0 + v0 ⇔ tv0 →0 = ←
−
a
←
−
a
2
stv0 →0 =
(tv0 →0 ) + v0 tv0 →0
2

(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)

For the calculation of time for traveling distance d when starting at an initial
speed of v0 , four cases need to be considered. In the first case, only deceleration is possible. In the second case, cruising at top-speed and deceleration are
possible. In the third case, acceleration up to top-speed, cruising at top-speed
and deceleration are possible. In the fourth case, the distance is so short that
only acceleration and deceleration phases are possible. The function defined in
Alg. 1 calculates the remaining cruise time for all of the cases. Line 7 uses the
time at which acceleration switches to deceleration, which is described in more
detail below.
Let d0 be the full distance from the start node to the destination node, thus,
starting with zero speed at the beginning of d0 and stopping with zero speed at
the end of d0 . For this, the time of switching from acceleration to deceleration
is given by Eq. 8, i.e., the time for driving while accelerating. To calculate this
12

→
−
Algorithm 1: CruiseT ime(−
a ,←
a , v, v0 , d)
2

if d ≤ stv0 →0 then
return tv0 →0

3

if v0 = v then

4

return

1

5

d−stv →0
0

v

+ tv0 →0

if stv0 →0 + stv0 →0 ≤ d then
d−st

−st

v0 →0
v0 →v
return tv0 →v +
+ tv0 →0
v
vv

2
u
u
→
−
→
−
2
0
0
u d + a v−
u d + a v−
v0
2 →
2 →
a
a
t
t
7 return
+
−−
→
−
←
−
→
−
←
−
→
a
a
a
a
a
+
+
←
−
→
2
2
2a
2−
a

6

time we make use of the fact that the speed at which we switch from acceleration
→t
−
→
−
1
to deceleration must match (−
a t1 = ←
a t2 ), hence, we can substitute t2 with a←
.
−
a
→
−
−
a 2 ←
a
t1 + t22
2
2
−
2
←
−
→
→
−
a
a t1
a
2
0
t +
⇔d =
←
−
2 1
2
a
2
→
−
→
−
←
−
a 2
a ( a t1 )
0
t +
⇔d =
−
2 1
2 2←
a
d0 =

⇔ t21 = −
→
a
2

s
⇔ t1 =

d0
→2
−

+ 2a←
−
a
d0
→
−
→
−
a
a2
−
2 + 2←
a

(8)

For the calculation, we assume that speed is currently zero and the movement
just starts at the start node. If v0 > 0 and d < d0 , then d0 has to be calculated
by using d (see Eq. 9).
→
−
a  v0  2
d0 = d +
(9)
→
2 −
a
Analogously to Eq. 8, it is also possible to solve for t2 , i.e., the time for driving
while decelerating. The sum of t1 and t2 is the complete time for the cruise
from start node to destination node. The time for accelerating to v0 is being
subtracted, such that the remaining time can be expressed as in line 7 of Alg. 1.

4

Demonstrator

We implemented a demonstrator functionality to investigate how our algorithms
developed within RAWSim-O work with real robots. For example with the help

13

of the iRobot Create 2, a mobile robot platform based on the Roomba vacuum cleaning robot. There are several reasons we choose the iRobot Create
2: ease of programming, low complexity, similar movement behavior like typical RMFS robots and low costs. The robots are equipped with ASUS Eee
PCs through serial-to-USB cables for processing capabilities, webcams for linefollowing, blink(1) for visual feedback, and RFID tag readers mounted inside the
former vacuum cleaning compartment for waypoint recognition (see Figure 6a).
Although we cannot emulate the transportation of pods with the robots, we are
still able to study the overall movement behavior in a real situation, which is
more prone to errors and noise than a simulation. Technically, the demonstrator robots replace the simulated robots, hence, a hybrid of a real system and a
simulation is built.

(a) Close-up of a demonstrator robot

(b) The view from RAWSim-O

(c) Multiple robots in an emulated RMFS

Figure 6: Demonstrator example of four robots running in an emulated RMFS
We demonstrate our RMFS with a simple running example of four robots
in a grid-world with 0.45m × 0.45m cells (totally 36 cells), see Figure 6b for
the view from RAWSim-O for this example and Figure 6c for the view of the
demonstration. One replenishment station is set on the left bottom side and one
14

pick station is set on the right bottom side. In total, there are six pods (blue
rectangles) available. The maximum velocity limit of each robot is 0.21m/s,
while the time it takes for each robot to do a complete turn is set to 5.5s. And the
maximum acceleration and deceleration of each robot are set to 0.5 and −0.5. To
adhere to the kinematic constraints (such as turning times and acceleration) in
continious time, we use the MAPFWR-solver from [9] to generate time-efficient
collision- and deadlock-free paths. Those paths are converted to a sequence of
go straight, turn left, and turn right commands and sent to the robot via WiFi.
The robot then executes these commands and sends back the RFID waypoint
tag of each intersection it comes across. By doing this, the movement of the
real robot and the expected movement are synchronized. This needs to be done
in order to avoid errors from the noisy real-world setting to add up. Similarly
to the simulated environment, pick and replenishment operations are emulated
by blocking the robot at the station for a fixed time. With the published source
code and similar components the demonstrator can be rebuild.

(a) Filtered image showing the line

(b) Processing result on original image

Figure 7: Line-following example using a blue line
The robot line-following is implemented using a common PID (Proportional
Integration Differential) controller method. The center of the line is extracted
by using the OpenCV library. The line recognition first translates the image to
a binary one by applying a range filter, and then applies the basic morphological operation “erosion” for removing noise (see resulting image in Figure 7a).
Afterwards, contour extraction is used to find the line’s borders within the gray
image. Using these lines, the bottom center is estimated to allow a stable target
(see green ring in Figure 7b) for the PID controller.
Using the demonstrator, we are able to show the successful application of the
path planning algorithms developed within RAWSim-O in a real-world situation. Furthermore, it can be used to demonstrate the basic idea of an RMFS at
a small scale.

15

5

Conclusion

In this work, we outlined core real-time decision problems occurring when operating an RMFS. To investigate different solution approaches for those decision
problems, we introduce the RMFS simulation framework RAWSim-O and describe its functionality and capabilities. Alongside this publication, we also
publish the source code of the framework and already present controllers and
algorithms at https://github.com/merschformann/RAWSim-O to support future research on RMFS. With this work we aim to support future research
on RMFS. For example, a study of how to control systems involving multiple
mezzanine floors can be done using RAWSim-O. For these, an efficient storage
strategy and task allocation method is expected to be crucial in order to mitigate the bottle-neck effect introduced by the elevators. Furthermore, we have
shown demonstrator application capabilities of the framework that enable the
integration of simple robots for real world demonstrations.

6

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Tim Lamballais for providing us with the concepts and
implementation of the default layout generator used in RAWSim-O.

References
[1] Nils Boysen, Dirk Briskorn, and Simon Emde. Parts-to-picker based order
processing in a rack-moving mobile robots environment. European Journal
of Operational Research, 262(2):550–562, 2017.
[2] Liron Cohen, Tansel Uras, and Sven Koenig. Feasibility study: Using highways for bounded-suboptimal multi-agent path finding. In Eighth Annual
Symposium on Combinatorial Search, 2015.
[3] Liron Cohen, Glenn Wagner, T. K. Satish Kumar, Howie Choset, and Sven
Koenig. Rapid randomized restarts for multi-agent path finding solvers,
2017.
[4] René de Koster, Tho Le-Duc, and Kees Jan Roodbergen. Design and control of warehouse order picking: A literature review. European Journal of
Operational Research, 182(2):481–501, 2007.
[5] John Enright and Peter R. Wurman. Optimization and coordinated autonomy in mobile fulfillment systems. In Sanem Sariel-Talay, Stephen F.
Smith, and Nilufer Onder, editors, Automated Action Planning for Autonomous Mobile Robots, 2011.
[6] Christopher J. Hazard, Peter R. Wurman, and Raffaello D’Andrea. Alphabet soup: A testbed for studying resource allocation in multi-vehicle

16

systems. In Proceedings of AAAI Workshop on Auction Mechanisms for
Robot Coordination, pages 23–30. Citeseer, 2006.
[7] A. E. Hoffman, M. C. Mountz, M. T. Barbehenn, J. R. Allard, M. E. Kimmel, F. Santini, M. H. Decker, R. D’Andrea, and P. R. Wurman. System
and method for inventory management using mobile drive units, 2013.
[8] T. Lamballais, D. Roy, and M.B.M. de Koster. Estimating performance
in a robotic mobile fulfillment system. European Journal of Operational
Research, 2016.
[9] M. Merschformann, L. Xie, and D. Erdmann. Path planning for Robotic
Mobile Fulfillment Systems. ArXiv e-prints, June 2017.
[10] Elena Tappia, Debjit Roy, René de Koster, and Marco Melacini. Modeling,
analysis, and design insights for shuttle-based compact storage systems.
Transportation Science, 51(1):269–295, 2017.
[11] Marc Wulfraat. Is kiva systems a good fit for your distribution center? an
unbiased distribution consultant evaluation., 2012.
[12] Peter R. Wurman, Raffaello D’Andrea, and Mick Mountz. Coordinating
hundreds of cooperative, autonomous vehicles in warehouses. AI Magazine,
29(1):9, 2008.

17

